---
layout: post
title:  "The Spirit of the 1930s"
description: 
tags: 
---


> “We've always defined ourselves by the ability to overcome the impossible. And we count these moments. These moments when we dare to aim higher, to break barriers, to reach for the stars, to make the unknown known. We count these moments as our proudest achievements. But we lost all that. Or perhaps we've just forgotten that we are still pioneers. And we've barely begun. And that our greatest accomplishments cannot be behind us, because our destiny lies above us.”

― Cooper - Interstellar

## The 1930s: The Darkest Day, the Brightest Night

After the Wall Street Crash of 1929, people experienced the fall of capitalism and the rise of nationalism. Authoritarian regimes emerged in several countries in Europe and South America, in particular, the Third Reich in Germany. Germany elected Adolf Hitler. Then, World War II helped end the Great Depression when governments spent money for the war effort.

On the bright side, the tech and science genius were rising in this era. They took the huge risk for doing what they love then jumped farther than anyone in tech and science for humanity. Aviation pioneer Howard Hughes was setting multiple world air-speed records and building the Hughes H-1 Racer and H-4 Hercules (the Spruce Goose) in the 1930s. Around that time, Well-known genius Einstein collaborated with Nathan Rosen to produce a theory of a wormhole.

In 2018, the world is facing similar problems like those happen in the 1930s. But we don’t see many Elon-type of innovator trying to solve the hardest problems in current society, or Einstein-type of researcher dare to think above and beyond. The current business system is collecting the smartest mind in the world to improve their ad click rate, camera filter, and food delivery. The talent also believes they are making the world a better place, but the truth is that just a few people are willing to take the risk to solve the complex problem in the complex world.

Everyone says they want to work on "meaningful problems". But, working on "meaningful problems" means failing to succeed most of the time and feeling like you're failing to succeed most of the time. It's not as glamorous as it seems, but in the era, it seems like people prefer easy and glamorous things.

That’s the reason why we are building 1930s inc. As a human being, we need to dare to aim higher, to break barriers, to make the unknown known. We need to bring back those spirits from the Titans in the 30s. 

## Knowledge and Innovation

In the next 100 years, one of the problems we have to solve is that human need a more opened knowledge network in our global society. 

The problem of knowledge and innovation today is that there is an apparent slowdown in the rate of innovation and productivity growth in advanced countries. And, each one of them is ranking top of the patent-holding countries in the world. In short, the tighter they are holding the knowledge, the slower they can innovate.

### Leverage

Emerging economies are benefiting from applying already developed ideas within their economies. That is how the diffusion of economic growth has worked since the industrial revolution. Globalization, it appears, has accelerated the rate of diffusion by lowering the obstacles. This has occurred via foreign direct investment and via the unbundling of production via global value chains. Access to foreign know-how fertilizes invention: thus, the greater the knowledge inflow, the stronger becomes domestic patenting. This is not only true for emerging countries. It is also true for those at the knowledge frontier.

More, it also applies to the people in those countries.

## The Slowdown and Competition

A particularly important conclusion of this analysis is that greater competition — one of the benefits of economic globalization — accelerates the diffusion of technology across countries and even the rate of innovation itself. One explanation for the latter might be that returns to innovation are increased by access to a bigger global marketplace.

What do these findings tell us about the state of the global knowledge economy and appropriate policy towards it? The most important conclusion is that the global diffusion of knowledge is an important benefit of globalization. Over time, this adds significant new contributors to the development of useful knowledge. 

Unfortunately, what is happening today is not just the entry of new innovators, but an apparent slowdown in the rate of innovation and productivity growth in the advanced countries. This is yet another reason why their voters, business leaders, and politicians have become more defensive. Yet if there is one lesson from two centuries of unprecedented economic growth it is that old knowledge ultimately becomes a widely-available commodity. 

## Productivity and Beyond

As well-respected economist Paul Krugman famously quipped, "Productivity isn't everything, but in the long run it is almost everything”. Human's ability to improve its civilization over time depends almost entirely on its ability to raise its output per thinker/worker. 

It is because humanity has discovered, developed, deployed, and disseminated useful knowledge that an ever-rising proportion of the world’s population is, at last, escaping the “poor, nasty, brutish and short” lives of our ancestors, pithily described by the philosopher Thomas Hobbes in the 17th century.

Today, human beings are slowly becoming cyborg with a supercomputer in our pocket. With the sheer amount of information available in the world today, we have become overwhelmed. Our mind is in a constant racing state. I believe the future of human thinking is to decentralize our knowledge/intelligence to a more efficient and deep thinking network with AI.

That’s why we are building Wormhole Technologies. We believe in humans are pioneers. We want to overcome the impossible. We dare to aim higher, to break barriers, to make the unknown known. 

