---
layout: post
title: "Good and Bad Business"
description: "100M Round It’s Common Now"
date: 2018-09-18
tags: 
comments: true
---


Start-ups raising $100 million or more from investors — known as a mega-round in Silicon Valley — used to be a rarity. But now, they are practically routine, producing a frenzy around tech companies with enough scale and momentum to absorb a large check.


Moving aggressively is not a choice. Well-funded start-ups, called “super-haves” by some investors, can afford to pay their employees more and lower their prices, losing money in the short term to win more customers.

“There’s definitely a little bit of this, ‘Let’s overcapitalize the company a little bit so we can move quicker and faster,’ ” he said.

The large investors also demand big ideas from the start-ups. Softbank’s Vision Fund team pushed Tina Sharkey, chief executive of e-commerce start-up Brandless, to share the most grandiose, ambitious version of her business road map.

“They were like, ‘Come on, show us your real plan,’ ” she said. Brandless had barely been operating for a year before Ms. Sharkey outlined an expansive vision to use machine learning, data, curation, and community-building to create efficiencies. “We didn’t have the gumption to say that to anyone else,” she said. In July, SoftBank invested $224 million into her company.

#### “In today’s hyper-connected world, companies need to hire, scale and enter new markets faster than ever before or risk being surpassed by others,” said Jeff Housenbold, a managing partner at SoftBank Investment Advisers.

Mr. Gurley said he was done trying to sound the alarm. “You have to adjust to the reality and play the game on the field,” he said.

#### Mr. Reeves, of software start-up Gusto, acknowledged that founders who obtain outsize sums of capital can get caught up in a “growth at any cost” mentality. That is why he chose not to maximize his funding round despite the intense interest. “It’s up to the founder to realize that’s a distraction,” he said. “Success is not having more money or a bigger team, but having more customers or revenue.”

For the start-ups, the pots of money are changing the normal way of building a tech company. They must move even faster, expand their ambitions and collect more investment money than ever — even if they might not be ready. They risk becoming too reliant on funding and never finding a path to profit.


From my consumer's perspective, the most annoying part is when a company provides a service I like, they look like they could be reasonably profitable for an investment of x but not for 10x, and then they suddenly raise to 10x or more. It's inevitable then that they will eventually ruin the existing service in search (usually futile) for some mythical product/market fit that was somehow projected be appropriately profitable for that 10x investment.
It's particularly irritating with paid services, where all of a sudden 
paying customers turn from highly valued into a legacy nuisance.

From [$100 Million Was Once Big Money for a Start-Up. Now, It’s Common. - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/technology/venture-capital-mega-round.html)

## Founder’s feedback

Funds like SoftBank have a very “winner take all” attitude about startups. They threatened my startup by basically saying that if you don't take the XXX millions of dollars, we'll be happy to give it your competitor who will out-fund you. These vcs want to pump a company so full of cash that they essentially take market domination of a vertical.

More common to over-hire, I think. Server costs tend to scale well with your customer base.I think most startups spend way more on advertising than servers.

I worked for a startup with a well liked paid product built through iteration (test prep product). Then it was dropped on the ground and discontinued cause they raised a hundred million and now needed to build the founders vision, a free consumer project designed and built for years without showing it to potential users. Didn’t work out. So I’ve seen that happen.

Shit, this sounds like a previous startup I left. Product-market fit acquired, growing steadily, near-profitability. Then Series C, and sudden pivot to more ambitious product. A few months/years later (I left before this, seeing the danger) most of the staff gets laid off. :\

This is basically a gross misallocation of these kinds of investment deals, but you're probably right and it's all too common. It says something about oversight as well.
There is a very real rationality behind SoftBanks ideal that they want to do things 'big' and 'dominate'. So, so many markets go to a single or small number of winners, and the surpluses tend to go to one winner.

SoftBanks strategy of finding 'something that is working' and then giving a company maximum firepower to basically replicate that thing and dominate globally, makes sense for them.

Now - some things don't scale well, and some things need a lot of market adaptation ... but the logic is sound.

Softbank 'threatening' a company that doesn't take their money is not very nice, at the same time, it's not really a threat, rather it's just the communication of their rational strategy: 'we take companies that have figured it out and give them the means to win the market'. Logically, if ABC Corp doesn't want to go that route, they'll be looking at DEF Corp and GHI Corp.. This is not new, just the scale if it all seems daunting.

The difference we're seeing in scale is due to the new reality that it's no longer about 'winning America', now it's about 'winning the world'. Much in the same way Hollywood films now, the big ones, are designed for international markets and without a theme, the stars, a story that will 'win' globally, the massive budget cannot be justified.

The notion of companies pivoting on something that's working, towards some 'grand vision' is kind of sad, but in a way understandable ... every one of us Entrepreneurial minded people have an 'irrational' bone where we want to 'do this thing' that compels us forward, it's just a matter of being very pragmatic about it.

$100M is a big round B or C or whatever, it's there to scale something, not to 'find a bigger product market fit'.

It's one of the classic mistakes of taking on too much money ... but it can be mitigated by really thoughtful leadership. If you take the money on the right terms, and spend it only as you needed it surely it can be mitigated, especially with the right kind of coaching, maybe by people who have been there.

