---
layout: post
title: "PG Talk Notes"
description: ""
date: 2018-09-02
tags: 
comments: true
---

[A Conversation with Paul Graham](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4WO5kJChg3w&t=1946s)

## Launch
“Launch as soon as you have a quantum of utility." 

Launching early costs less time and money. So you should launch something that works, as soon as possible with the minimum number of people required to build something useful (probably 2-4 people). 

Beyond that, you make your "vision" meet reality, where you can learn from users/customers.

## Look for best founder

“Determination is far more important than intelligence when it comes to becoming a successful startup founder.”

“If you’ve worked for a large company for 20 years, you might not be a founder, unless you were forced to [stay there] for visa reasons. Because if you were the kind of person who would make a good founder, you wouldn’t be able to stand working for a large company for 20 years.”


## Look for best cofounder

“Would I rather have 30 percent of this [one] person, or 100 percent of another person?”


## Competition

“Maybe one out of 1,900” of its portfolio companies has been killed by a rival that’s tackling the same problem.

Usually companies fail owing to poor execution, not because of competition. 

## Pick the right startup
“It's not just that the outcomes  of startups are hard to predict. I think to some degree they're actually indeterminate. There's  a huge amount of luck involved, you know? And so, I think even if Y  Combinator were as good at picking startups as you could possibly get ... I mean,  in fact you have 150 startups per batch of which maybe five will become giant,  or something like that. Even if you were able to pick perfectly, that doesn't mean you could get the  batches down to only five startups. You probably have to pick 20, I think. Even  if you were perfect. “


