---
layout: post
title: "Naval AMA"
description: ""
date: 2018-08-19
tags: 
comments: true
---

# [Naval AMA on Twitter](https://twitter.com/naval/status/1029255489995993088)

### What important truth do very few people agree with you on?

Nothing matters and that’s a good thing as it sets you free.

Bonus: Moral behavior is rational.


### Capitalists are ultimately practical.

### How important is sleep to you? How many hours do you sleep?

Important enough that I don’t use alarms.

### What is the biggest strategic error you made as an entrepreneur (AngelList or other) and what did you learn from it?

Starting companies out of impatience.

### What's a more worthy pursuit than wealth?

Inner peace.

### What do you want to be remembered for?

Don’t care, I’ll be dead.

### What company would you love to work for?

I can’t work for others.

### How are you enjoying your 40s compared to your 30s?

30s physically, but mentally / emotionally it can keep getting better all the way to the end.

### What are 3 things you personally do to lift team morale?

Complete honesty.

### What kind of life could you live such that, at the end of it, you'd feel satisfied?

A life where you were satisfied in that moment and not thinking about how you’ll feel about it in the future.

### What have you learned in the last six months, that you couldn’t have learned without your direct experience in the decade prior?

The clichés like “follow your dreams,” and “live in the moment” are actually correct.

### What's the best book you've read this year?

I can’t choose one. But Skin in the Game for practical and Anthony De Mello’s “Awareness” for philosophical.

### Ray Hoover: Be authentic. People gravitate toward those with true passion. It’s infectious

### What drives you to earn more despite being a billionaire?

I’m in neither of those categories.

### If you were in your 20s today with the ability to save a couple $10,000 a year, how would you spend your money?

I’d invest it, not spend it. Bitcoin and tech startups but do your own homework.

### What is your favorite quote? :)

“Desire is suffering.”

### Business school worth it?

No

### How to stay positive during debilitating sickness

This is your opportunity for internal exploration and growth.

“Every man has two lives, and the second begins when he realizes he has only one.”

### If you knew you were going to die and the date was soon, what would you change that you’re doing now? What wouldn’t you change?

I’d write that book. The rest I wouldn’t change.

### Would you be open to doing a TEDTalk? If so, what would you speak on?

I only speak extemporaneously, which is antithetical to the polished TED format.

### What new tech are you excited about?

VR / AR but it’s going to take a decade or more.


### If you were to do it over again, would you attend university? If so, what would you major in? (my first guess is mathematics)

Probably. Whichever STEM discipline I enjoyed the most. For me, a combination of physics and computer science

### Is sugar bad for humans and does nutrition industry require a huge reform like how computer/internet industries did ?

Processed sugar is horrific for human health. But given how clumsy government intervention is, the solution is education.

### What is your intention when you read books/articles/blogs?

None, intentions get in the way of observation. But I enjoy and tend to stick to concise, clear, and simply written things that teach me something new.


### If you could make one product change to Twitter what would it be?

Replace centralized moderation with publish / subscribe block lists. I’d also revert the feed to reverse chron, kill Moments, and open the API.


### Is there an age or a time to do a startup contrary to popular opinion ??

As soon as you have the skills and something you know well and are passionate about.

### Bitcoin price estimate (guess) 5 years from now?

$100K or (nearly) bust.

### What's the worst way in which you wasted a lot of your time?

Meetings, conferences, traveling for business, staying in relationships that I knew weren’t forever.

### How many hours a week do you work?

My definition of work is “the set of things that you have to do that you don’t want to do.” So maybe a 5-10 hours a week.

### Do you have mentor(s)? How should one chose a mentor(professional and personal?

No, learn bits and pieces from everyone. I mostly learned from books.

### Any good sleep hacks?

Meditate in bed. Either you will fall asleep or have a deep meditation. Victory either way.

### What's your best parenting advice?

Love them unconditionally, try not to say “no,” and always reward their innate curiosity.

### Should founders create content about entrepreneurship? or focus primarily on the biz and content only related to it

Only if it’s strategic or incredibly insightful.

### Biggest realisation about life so far?

Single-player internal game.

### What are ur thoughts on global warming

Went from science to politics.

### How did you hone your discernment for when to be patient vs. when to be impatient?

Impatience with actions, patience with results.

### How do you spend your free time? And what you consider your free time being?

I don’t have free time because I don’t have unfree time. 

Everybody and everything that had a claim on my time has been uncompromisingly removed from my life.

### If you only had 30 free minutes in ur day would you chose to meditate or workout?

I’d do yoga with very deep breathing and my eyes closed.

### What is your dharma practice? 

Meditation, yoga, reading philosophy, non-judgmental awareness, and coaching.

### How often do you read per day?

2-4 hours / day spread across Twitter, blogs, and books. Books only are about 2.

### f you look back at the various ways you’ve created leverage in your life, what in retrospect has been the most powerful? (Sorry if I missed the 15min window)

Products / code.

### How can I start improving self discipline? I struggle a lot with being patient.

Impatience is a virtue. Self-discipline is another form of self conflict. Find things that excite you.

### For you, what is the most important thing that you deeply understand or are working to understand?


My own mind.


### Why we as humans choose to be rich instead of happy?

We are biological machines programmed to survive and replicate. Happy is anti-evolution.

### How do you wish you spent your time ten years ago and how do you think you'll wish you'd have spent now looking back ten years from now?

Time is the ultimate currency and I should have been more tight fisted with it.


### If you were just starting out in your 20s today, what would you do different? Would you still be a founder?

More patience, more presence, less anxiety.

### How to become a high impact person?

Stop caring about impact and just be the best version of you possible - then you’ll naturally have an impact.


### Where do thoughts come from?

The brain is trying to map past experiences onto the present environment.

### How do you differentiate between ego and self respect?

Ego is false confidence, self-respect is true confidence.

### How to create long lasting relationships ?

Just be you and wait for the people who want that.

### Thoughts on the explosion of the intellectual dark web? 

Gatekeepers in media and academia have lost power. On the Internet, a single individual can accomplish anything.

### How does someone who's a strong long-term thinker become better at making short-term decisions, without being too impulsive?

Awareness. Reactions come from a conditioned mind.


### What's the most important thing you don't usually/already tweet about?

Health and fitness. I’m not an expert. 

IMHO the three big ones in life are wealth, health, and happiness. We pursue them in that order but their importance is in the reverse.


### Do you believe that passing decisions to code (AI, ML) will make the world fairer? Do you believe that new/ future technologies will alleviate inequality, or will they excerberate it?

Technology is leverage and leverage magnifies inequality. But it makes everyone eventually better off so focusing too much on the unequal aspect makes us all worse off. Focus on education.

Re-educating displaced adults.

### Turning point in your career that few people saw from the outside but massively influenced you?

When I lost everything - money, career, and reputation - and had to start over.

### What's your view on keeping professional & personal life separate?

Essential if you want real friends and inner peace.


### Would you mind sharing your meditation practice?

Sit and make no effort, surrender, and accept whatever happens. 1 hour at waking and 30-60m in the early evening. 60 days for real effect. YMMV.

### Do you have a morning routine? What does it look like?

1 hour meditation + 1 hour workout / yoga.
